# A Case of Contrast-Induced Encephalopathy Using Iodixanol
## Case study
A 70-year-old man with a history of hypertension underwent elective cardiac catheterization for ‘angina’. Cardiac catheterization, performed via the right radial artery, showed 80% stenosis of the (LAD). In the same session, a ..... mm drug-eluting coronary-artery stent was successfully implanted in the LAD subtotal lesion without peri-procedural complications. The fluoroscopy time was 20.8 min, and 260 ml of iopamidol (Isovue®) was used. After the procedure, the patient developed sudden onset of visual changes. There were no focal neurological deficits. Bilateral horizontal nystagmus was noted after the procedure, and an emergent CT scan of the head was unremarkable. A diffusion magnetic resonance imaging, performed after the patient was stable, did not show any abnormalities. 
****
A 61-year-old woman underwent percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA) to relieve stenosis of the left anterior descending coronary artery. During the procedure ophthalmoplegia with diplopia developed. The diagnosis was partial right third cranial nerve palsy and left fourth cranial nerve palsy. The cause is presumed to have been a microembolic infarct of the right peripheral third nerve coupled with either decompensation of pre-existing left superior oblique palsy or a separate microinfarct of the left trochlear nerve. Over 7 months of follow-up there was partial resolution of the ophthalmoplegia. Ophthalmoplegia during PTCA is rare, and to our knowledge this complication has not been reported in the ophthalmic literature.

****

To the Editor:

Percutaneous intervention (PCI) is performed in patients with coronary artery disease to achieve myocardial revascularization.1 Neuro-ophthalmic complications are very rare after these interventions. Bilateral ophthalmoplegia during percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA) was reported in only 1 case in the literature.2 We report a patient who developed unilateral isolated oculomotor nerve paralysis following PCI.

A 70-year-old man who previously did not have cardiac symptoms was admitted with angina. He had history of hypertension. He took irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 150 mg/d and aspirin 100 mg/d. He has quit smoking cigarettes for 14 years. Medical examination showed that his blood pressure was 125/77 mm Hg and pulse rate 69/min/rhythmic. Systemic examination findings were normal. Laboratory investigations were as follows: glucose 118.6 mg/dL, blood urea nitrogen (BUN) 16.6 mg/dL, creatinine 1.04 mg/dL, low-density lipoprotein (LDL)-cholesterol 140.0 mg/ dL, triglycerides 93.9 mg/dL, high-density lipoprotein (HDL)-cholesterol 61.5 mg/dL. Thyroid function tests were normal and hemoglobin A1C (HbA1c) was 6.2%. Urinary investigation showed no albuminuria. 
Electrocardiography showed biphasic T negativity between V3 and V6. Echocardiographic investigation revealed left ventricular diastolic dysfunction. 
The patient was taken to the catheter laboratory with the diagnosis of unstable angina pectoris. The right coronary artery and circumflex artery were normal, middle/proximal of left anterior descending (LAD) artery had 80% stenosis and slow retrograde flow from the distal side. In the same session, a 20 mm drug-eluting coronary-artery stent was successfully implanted in the LAD subtotal lesion without peri-procedural complications. [Percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty was performed to the total lesion that was at the proximal of LAD and Thrombolysis in Myocardial Infarction (TIMI) III flow was achieved.] 
 During the procedure ophthalmoplegia with diplopia developed. The diagnosis was partial right third cranial nerve palsy and left fourth cranial nerve palsy. The cause is presumed to have been a microembolic infarct of the right peripheral third nerve coupled with either decompensation of pre-existing left superior oblique palsy or a separate microinfarct of the left trochlear nerve. Over 7 months of follow-up there was partial resolution of the ophthalmoplegia.
He suddenly developed ptosis of the left eye lid and diplopia after the prolonged and technically difficult angiography procedure. Ocular examination showed that He had a left partial third nerve paralysis. His visual acuity was 6/6 in each eye and other ocular examination was normal. He had no previous ocular or neurological history, and his neurological examination was normal. Computed cranial tomography showed no focus of hematoma, and cranial magnetic resonance imaging without contrast media did not show any pathological finding. He was followed up in our outpatient clinic for more than 2 months and still had ophthalmoplegia.

The occurrence of microembolic complications following PCI is well documented. Although neurological complications are reported, neuro-ophthalmic complications are very rare.1-3 Bilateral ophthalmoplegia during PTCA was reported in only 1 case in PubMed. Drummond et al2 reported that a 61year-old female patient developed right partial third cranial nerve paralysis and left fourth cranial nerve palsy after PTCA to ameliorate stenosis of LAD artery. The cause of paralysis was considered as microembolic infarcts. We thought that the cause of neuro-ophthalmic complications in our case was ischemia due to microemboli. Both case presentations show that prolonged and technically difficult procedures and possibly age may increase the risk of microembolic complications. Our patient had new diagnosis of diabetes. Hypertension and diabetes may also have contributed to the risk of microemboli.4

The present case shows that potential ocular motor deficits may occur after prolonged and technically difficult PCI. The risks of ocular motility deficits should be discussed with the patient prior to the procedure.


